As you probably heard cash flow is king cash flow in this case as defined by the amount of total income
received in a given month when you received one hundred percent of your cash flow from freelance services
you find huge peaks and valleys in your cash flow.
This all depends on how many clients you have how often they pay you and if they're regular clients
or regular clients are fantastic and provide stability in your cash flow and income.
A few of my clients were this way and I'd prefer them over the higher paying one time jobs because of
the stability if I have three clients that give me around 500 to 1000 dollars of work per month I can
count on at least one thousand two thousand dollars per month of income that's on top of the extra one
time projects or client work I do.
This provides a nice cash flow stability I can at least pay basic bills and be more available to take
extra risk and pitch myself for those larger high pay client work there is one time higher paying client
jobs always have the potential to convert to a regular paying client so constantly searching for those
onetime high paying freelance opportunities is essential for growing both sides of your business both
short term and long term clients
these higher paying onetime clients adds a nice boost to cash flow and maybe a web development project
that lasts for weeks and you receive a one time payout of five thousand dollars for that given month
as it to your regular clients.
You are also working for you can have a nice six thousand seven thousand dollars cash flow for that
month or higher balance is what we truly strive for in freelancing.
Having a balance between those two client types is essential for evening out your cash flow.
The last thing you need is a super low paying month let's say 1000 dollars but twenty two hundred dollars
in expenses for your family.
There are times where this will happen that five thousand dollar one time project will not help you
here.
If you will not get paid for that project until you invoiced and they've sent the money there's always
a delay in getting paid.
If those are not time perfectly a cash flow problem will happen.
That is why one of those higher paying months any money that is above your average monthly income is
stashed away for those months where invoices are not paid on your desired timing.
I can guarantee after 12 years of studying my cash flow even now after having five staple clients and
lots of extra work there are months that could be on the lower side.
That is why with my regular stable clients I sent out my invoice monthly and on the same date.
You could pick any date whatever works out best for you and your client.
But after a few months or years of this regular clockwork invoicing pattern they tend to pick quicker
as they know when they're going to receive that invoice.
It becomes a regular bill to them and you no longer have to fight for the invoice to be paid on time
or within that 30 day period.
We will go over this in more detail later in the class but charging an outfront fee for new or higher
paying clients is essential if you want to protect yourself from slow or no paying clients.
Contracts are key here too but asking a 25 to 50 percent upfront fee for that first project guarantees
you will receive prompt payment and helps that new client take you more seriously as they have some
money invested into you already.
I have made this mistake many times when I first started out I thought that charging 50 percent upfront
fee for my first project would intimidate them too much and they would move on in some cases.
It's true but having a phone call or personal connection with them can help make this process feel less
intimidating for the client.
But I would highly recommend this method.
There are too many people out there wanting to take advantage of new freelancers and not pay them on
time or not even pay them at all.
This is very important.
It is better to scare off potential clients by protecting yourself with this upfront fee than it is
to get clients that are low quality and not willing to take a risk.
Like I said before having that personal phone call with the client goes a long way in establishing a
good first communication and reducing the possibility that requesting an upfront fee will intimidate
or scare them off.